Various concept checks sic says we have a battery here that's used to light up this bulb is shown and
then an identical battery is connected on the other side and then you close the switch.
Then what happens to the bulb.
So before there is certainly a current over here and going through it I mean just write this out before
closing the switch right before this battery year as a potential V.
This here has a resistance.
Are you plie liberal to that you're going to find there's a current going through it given by this.
All right.
So it has a certain brightness based on this current now after what happens.
Well so after all we're going to close our switch make a connection over here again with an identical
battery.
So let's do this now let's try to apply a loop rule around this older loop and see what happens you're
going to see there's a problem now in this problem.
So let's go around the first thing I encounter is Plez V.
When I go across the battery like this then I go around the outer loop and I cross this other battery
right over here and now I get another plus V.
And then I go back to where I started.
So I say well yeah that has to be equal to zero.
Then you do this and whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa what's going on here.
Right.
The only way you could satisfy this equation over here the way I did it is a V was equal to zero.
However we know it's not equal to zero.
So there's a problem here right.
This is kind of impossible right because we know we have a battery that has a voltage yet when we apply
Kirchhoff's loop will we get that the voltage has to be equal to zero.
And the problem is this problem is kind of a trap.
The only way you can have this is some problems you really cannot ignore the internal resistance of
a battery and this is one of them.
OK so we really have to include whenever you run into problems when you apply Kirchoff's laws and you
see that the current sort of the voltage has to be zero it seems to be like an impossible situation.
It's because you really have to include the internal resistance so let's do that now so I'm going to
call that internal resistance little are OK.
And now let's apply some of our rules so let's label some of the currents.
We're going to keep the current down the center.
We're going to still call that I call the current now and this branch and I call this one and then I'll
call the current in this outer branch on the right hand side Aitu.
Now we can apply Kirchhoff's rules and we'll get to a solution.
So let's see what happens now.
Here we have a junction so we can say whatever goes into the junction.
We have a current one going into the junction plus current I going into the junction equals the Aitu
there's one equation.
Another equation I can get now is well you can apply loop rules right.
We can apply loop rules let's go around kind of both sides.
So let me start out here and go around.
So first thing on counter-battery V.
Now I get a voltage drop across this internal resistance that's given by this.
And now I'm going across the resistor except I'm crossing it in the opposite direction of the current.
So you have to have this.
Then I go back to where I start.
Now I have three unknown so I really need three equations over here.
So again we're going to use another loop rule you can use another loop rule here say going around this
right hand side you're going to get something similar you get v you get minus the different current.
Now to our.
And now I'm going through this middle resistance so I'm going to get minus i r equals zero.
All right when I'm first going to do here let's manipulate equations 2 and 3.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to subtract them now I'm going to do equation 2 minus equation
3.
And if I do that you see the v's are going to cancel out here if I subtract them.
So let's do that.
So I get minus.
I want our Plus I are then if I subtract this I end up switching the signs over here plus two are and
plus I are equal to zero.
Now you can group some of the terms together you know all the facts.
The internal resistance for this term plus two are two are rather.
That has to be equal to zero.
Now I'm almost done see this term over here the second term is I to mine is one.
So I eliminate that and I'm going to eliminate that using my junction rule.
You can see here that I two minus one as to be equal to the current I OK.
So substitute that in here.
So what are you going to get.
I multiply by that tiny little resistance internal resistance of each B plus two are equal zero.
So if you factor out the IO which you end up getting is R plus two times are equals zero.
So how is this possible what value of current with satisfied as it is.
There's only one right these guys are finite values resistance.
I'm the one who pick which lay ball by substituting two there and this is a property of the battery.
So the only way I can satisfy this equation is if that current equals to zero.
OK so we initially had some current flowing through it and now the current AI has to be able to zero
if that current equals to zero.
That means it's going to go out.
So actually number one is the correct answer over here.
Now let's think about what else happens now.
So if the current goes to zero look at this term let's look at our junction table.
All right if I equals to zero just get rid of it that means that the current and these the branches
are going to be the same.
I want Eagles to Itu
and now I just want you to examine how what happens to the current and why you would probably never
really wanted to do this in real life.
Let's have a look at it.
So we know the current Now there's nothing going it's not on branch.
All that current's going around this outer loop like this.
Let's find how much courage do we actually have.
OK.
Again we find that we can use any of these equations here you can use either this one or you can use
this one.
Let's use this equation to so equation 2 tells us that Bolch minus Iowa and our little are.
And now I don't have to worry about the second terms and there's no current flowing through that middle
resistor so that there has to be equal to zero.
So what are we going to get at the current and those outer branches is the battery which whatever it
is 9 volts 1.5 volts divided by the internal resistance.
I see what happens.
This is typically pretty small.
Ideally you want to make the internal resistance as small as possible so you can imagine if I divide
by a small number this current I y is going to be big OK.
And actually that's why you really want to do that because you're going to generate quite a lot of current
yet and Currence going to flow through that bulb.
And if I generate a lot of current You have to have a voltage drop across these tiny resistors.
All right.
So that's it for or 6.
A little bit trickier.
Again I just want to point out that some that really do have to include internal resistance otherwise.
And you can always set it to zero at the end and then kind of see what happens.
But just think clued in then at the end set it to zero and take that limit.